---
title: What's the profile of a Chi Kung student?
layout: post
---
>"It (what you choose to do) has got to be something that you’re passionate about because otherwise you won’t have the perseverance to see it through." - Jobs, the movie.

I teach Chi Kung since 1998 and during this time period I had many people in my classes.

In weekly classes, workshops, events, or briefly in the treatment room where I prescribe a exercise to support the healing of a certain condition.

The question that I ask myself often is what makes a student after a first contact with this art come back... or not.

What is the profile of the Chi Kung student?

What makes someone to invest 10 years of is life studying and practicing? 

Some reasons I guess are connected with what the practice has to offer to each and every one of us. 

But I believe that there is more then this. 

Looking at my students I can identify at least five traits that can make
a difference in the challenges that this art brings once you start practicing
it. 

+ **They practice for health reasons.** They found out in this practice a way of understanding some chronic issue and by this understanding they can cope with it in a fresh new vision about what are the causes of they're suffering. The unbalances range from pain, digestive problems, immune system disorders, sleep problems and others that don't have any name but diminish their quality of life. It doesn't matter if a pain in the shoulder is more challenging then the inability to sleep. The most important is that there is a will in each of them to do something in their benefit and a commitment to follow this path.

+ **They are curious.** They ask questions. There is a thirst to know more. Not just *more* but a knowledge that can better explain what they practice. In this way they keep the motivation alive as the training progresses and they find challenges to be taken. I speak also for myself in this subject. I live 2000 km from my teacher. Know how to research about a subject and search for the various perspectives of the same view is also a way to keep myself motivated. Like in life one of the indicators that can increase longevity is curiosity and the need to know more. 

+ **They are not afraid to make mistakes.** It's possible to reap many benefits from Chi Kung in a weekly class. But you can increase them if you build your own practice. In a survey that I did in 2013, among the reasons why that they don't practice at home is that they don't know what to practice when they are by themselves. In some cases you can translate this also to "I want to practice but I'm afraid to make mistakes." The main difference between this students and others who practice is that the ones who practice understood that by overcoming fear of failure create questions. This questions once clarified by me or in a conversation with a fellow student put's them in the "right track" and makes them go even further. This trait also shows how each one accept error and mistake as hindrance or as one of the most powerful tools for growing.

+ **They practice the child's mind concept.** This kind of mentality is focused in the process, not in it's completion. A child can play with a toy for weeks or months with the same gadget, with the same setup. The difference is the story that is created each time around the toy that helps her to really enjoy the moment. The goal of Chi Kung it's not to know many exercises, but to embrace the challenge of how deeply we understand the material that we already have to fit our present condition. There is no goal, just a path open to discovery. 

+ **They are time wise.** There are two types of training the formal way that is possible to do at home or at the park and the informal one where you take the practice wherever you are. Both ways are valid to develop your Chi. To be time wise requires to make use of the daily affairs to practice. It's possible to practice when you are sited in a bus, waiting for the train to come or as you walk on the street. To be able to recognize this situations as training opportunities can enable you to train your posture and awareness most part of the day. To develop a consistent and regular training asks for choices how to spend the time that is given to us. We can spend more 15 minutes surfing in the internet or use this time to practice. It depends of the priorities we establish to ourselves. I can take this choices as the importance that anyone gives to oneself and his development. 

I would love to know if you are a student how this article resonates with you? How do you create motivation in your training?

If you are a teacher do you recognize this traits on your students? What's for you the profile of your students? 

Enjoy your practice!
