---
layout: post
title: Joseph Pilates, Nelson Mandela and Guo Yunshen
---
### 1
Joseph Pilates, creator of the Pilates Method was placed by the British government during the First World War in a detention camp. There, he applied is knowledge to strengthen the body in the form of exercises, not only just for himself but for the other detainees that where with him.

Being in this setup gave him the opportunity to refine and develop exercises that  needed very little or no materials. In this way, he enriched his technique that is now used worldwide as a health and fitness method.  

### 2
It is now known that Nelson Mandela when he was incarcerated raced every day in his cell 45 minutes in the same place. It was followed by 200 abdominal crunches and 100 pushups in his fingertips to keep himself fit.

### 3
In the 19th century Guo Yunshen - the master of Wang Xiang Zhai which created the lineage I represent, was detained in jail for three years. His arrest included two iron balls attached to his legs that prevented him from walking or moving freely.

His training consisted during those three years in addition to various stationary postures the practice and improvement of a martial technique known as “half-step”.

This step, when mastered results in very strong punch that can be ignited in a very short distance - similar to Bruce Lee’s “one inch punch”.

When he was released, his health had improved substantially - he was healthier then when he got in, and his “half-step” became known as something “that couldn’t be defeated by anyone under Heaven”.

### 4
Your decision to practice or not to practice today is separated by a fine line.

But rarely you should point this decision to external circumstances.

Letting external to rule your internal disposition only postpones another day of practice - most of the times makes you feel miserable too.

It can be a wonderful excuse for various engagements, but serves no one, much less your development and purpose in life.

### 5
So before you blame the weather, the politics, the world crises, the pile of work to be done and how this make you feel sad and down, just do a thing first:

Get your ass off the chair and do some practice.

I can’t guarantee you that all your worries will be gone after that, but I can guarantee you that at least this may happen:

You proved yourself that no matter what, training is possible and it’s not about them is about you.

In doing this you also reclaimed your freedom like Joseph Pilates, Nelson Mandela or Guo Yunshen once did.

Now, do it again tomorrow.

Have a wonderful week of practice.