---
layout: post
title: Formality in the practice
---
Formality in the practice

If you are invited to a party where you don’t know most of the people and there is a strict dress code the feeling is different from a beach party where you know everyone.

In the later you get a relaxed sensation, you may don’t want to leave the party and the question is: “can I stay just a bit more?”. In a conventional and formal event the question would be more like “when can I leave?”

When you stroll on the daily routine of exercises, it´s easy to get formal and this means to transform your training into a checklist.

When that happens the benefits of the training may just fade and tension builds up more and more as you go along. Because you must do and perform instead of just show up and enjoy.

This doesn’t mean that the training should be something without structure or goal which is essential to a consistent routine, but both of the approaches can bring benefits to the practice instead of just choosing one of them.

If you are just “the check list freak” with always so many things to practice and so little time to do them, once a week choose doing the three most relaxing exercises that you are fond of. Do less to achieve more.

If you are just “the beach party Chi Kung student” once a week sit five minutes before you start, take note of a few exercises that you would like to do and make them happen.

The challenge is to use both mindsets as tools that can benefit your training, bringing more awareness of your tensions and ability to relax them.

Formality can block, but also shapes the Chi, informality can make it quite blurry, but also can be a wonderful relaxing opportunity.

Enjoy your practice.  