---
layout: post
title: Chi Kung Myths - Part one
---
Chi Kung arrived to the West in a more consistent way in the early eighties, since then it’s become part of the daily routine of an increasing number of people.

Gradually has it became available in books, movies and other formats and it gave rise to some kind of mystical cloud around this practice. Mostly by people who saw, read, but never tried themselves.

Myths were then born about Chi Kung, about his range of action as a therapeutic, religious or even martial art.

I wrote a few articles which I called Chi Kung Urban Myths and this is the first one.

**Myth number one - Chi Kung it’s mainly for old and sick people.**

This idea was born when the first footage’s were starting to arrive from China showing the parks or the hospitals full of happy people doing exercises. The main characters in those movies were most aged people or sick people.

The other thing that stroked the western mind was that it looked like something that was being almost done in a no gravity environment resembling the first expedition to the moon. This effortless and easy characteristic of these movements gave rise to the idea: “This is a low impact exercise and it looks quite relaxing and easy, let’s teach this to people that are retired or are in a low energy state”.

But I guess the first transplants of this art, made by the pioneers who had the courage to step out and teach them - mainly to people who neither the mind or body heard or dreamed of it, was quite challenging for both parts.     

The same with people who are ill and they didn’t had time enjoy the benefits of this practice when they were healthy in order to develop some kind of trust relationship.

The thing is this: In the videos from the 80’s we watch the end of the line. Which means that those lovely elderly people who do it effortlessly have been doing that for years maybe throughout their lives. Most of the cases 40 or 50 years of experience.

The hospitals we see using Chi Kung they have patients who have practiced during their lives or have heard of it in a way that they can trust as a therapy. It’s in their culture for at least 3000 years - I guess that’s a good point to start with.

This doesn’t mean that seniors could not benefit from it. I taught two classes a week for more than 10 years to elderly practitioners and the benefits were amazing. Some of my students nowadays have more than 65 and really enjoy and reap benefits from doing it.

Also, it can be taught to relieve or prevent chronic and acute unbalances in a way that most of the therapies struggle to produce results.

But this is a very limited scope of action when the Chi is everywhere in our lives and the Chi Kung practice can be used to enhance the qualities of that Chi.

I believe that everyone can benefit from it. In the older people it can help them to stay connected with their youth and get both longevity and quality of life. In younger people it can help them to focus their energy on what is important and constructive. Even in children it can help them to discover their bodies and surroundings in a natural and healthy way.

It’s now growing the number of researches using Chi Kung - mainly regarding to diseases. I guess it’s important, but this promotes even more this myth as an approach only useful for sick people.  

By ourselves in the daily practice, we can learn that doing it while healthy, it’s more efficient than when the sickness creeps in and sooner we start to train in a regular way sooner we understand that it can turn out as one of the most important savings accounts for the days in the future, if we wish to create quality in our lives towards longevity.

Enjoy your practice.

P.s. For a deep understanding of it’s contemporary story I recommend the David’s Palmer book [Qigong Fever.](http://www.bookdepository.com/Qigong-Fever-David-Palmer/9780231140669)
