---
title: It's all very good
layout: post
---
In the early 2000 and during the following six years, I studied with a Chinese Chi Kung Master. His approach, was the use of a practice called Zhan Zhuang (站樁). You can roughly translate it as "Standing like a pole". Also known, as standing like a tree. 

This practice, asks you to stand for some time, with your feet at shoulder width, the arms are resting at the sides of the body or in some posture at the back, front or sides of the torso. It's also called by some schools standing zen meditation. The time of practice, can go from 1 minute to the time that you wish. More seasoned practitioners of this art, can spend from 40 to 90 minutes every day, cultivating in this way stillness and awareness of the body/mind.

During his workshops, Master Li would emphasized this practice and we would spend at least one hour standing.

Some people, in the end of the training, those new to this concept, would ask him questions regarding to feelings and sensations during the practice. 

The answer of Master Li was unanimous, sometimes with a smile, sometime with a laughter.

"That's very good!"

- "Why did I felt tension in my shoulders?"
- "Why did I felt tingling in my fingers?" 
- "Why did I saw some blue lights?"
- "Why I had trouble to stay still and I felt bored?"
- "why do my feet hurt?"
…

He would answer: "You felt ………? that's very good!"

When you start to practice, many sensations may arise. 

You can make a list of the few most common, but there are some that always come off the norm. Some that you can't find anywhere. 

And that's the nature of the Chi of the human body, it's personal and can not be putted in a box - can't be tagged or classified. 

Chi expresses your unique identity.

In the times that we live, copy and paste is a norm, you can make copies of everything, making everything look similar and standardized. Chi Kung still stands as a manifest, where the individual is more important then the sensations, schools or forms. 

It's about what YOU feel, not about if it is in the norm or not.

"It's all very good!"*

Enjoy your practice

*When in doubt, if there are sensations which persist and become uncomfortable ask to experienced teacher.